For our text today provides a beautiful example of how Jehovah and Jesus love those who love what is right.
But what are some of the circumstances that led up to this text being written?
And what can we benefit or how can we benefit from it today?
But let's first look at a prayer that relates to this account offered by Jesus.
Please turn with me to John chapter 17.
And we'll recall in this account, Jesus was about to be arrested, tried and executed.
But he was deeply concerned about his followers.
So notice the request that he made of his father.
That's verse 15.
I do not request that you take them out of the world, but that you watch over them because of the wicked one.
Now notice that Jesus said, watch over them. Those three key words.
What does that mean?
What means to not be a policeman, but to have a protective care of someone?
Now the original language word actually means to guard from loss or injury by keeping an eye on.
So we think about a shepherd that watches over his sheep during the night.
Or a caring father that looks out for his little children to prevent them from getting harmed.
Well, that's the sense that Jesus had in trying to get protection for his followers.
And we're sure that Jehovah heard that selfless prayer.
Now with that prayer in mind, let's fast forward to a few years later and Paul's second missionary tour.
The spirit has directed Paul to step over into Macedonia.
Then to Athens and then to Corinth.
And that's where we pick up the action.
So if you turn to Acts chapter 18,
we're going to see that Paul has become intensely occupied with the word in verse five.
Now he faces headwinds.
Headwinds are strong opposition from the Jews.
What does he do?
Well, he has to face the situation.
Does he stay there and that assignment sticking it out?
Perhaps risking his life?
Or does he try to go to say for harbours?
A safe for city where the situation is much calmer?
Well, surely this stressed out Paul.
And he would besiege Jehovah about this matter.
But notice the answer that he receives in verse nine.
It says more over the Lord said to Paul in a vision by night.
Do not be afraid.
But keep on speaking and do not keep silent.
For I am with you.
And no man will assault you to harm you.
For I have many people in this city.
And did you see what the Lord Jesus said?
He said, do not be afraid.
I am with you.
Well, how that must have reassured the apostle Paul.
He was stressed.
But this must have calmed him down.
Because he knew that he was going to be well cared for.
He was being looked out for.
And perhaps it reminded the apostle Paul of the words of Jeremiah,
Jeremiah chapter one verse eight,
where Jehovah told him to do not be afraid for I am with you to save you.
Well, how that must have reassured Jeremiah because he continued in his ministry
for some 67 years.
Now, the apostle Paul is an outstanding example.
And you could say one of the foremost examples of missionaries.
And we think about missionaries this weekend.
We have the Gilead graduation coming up of the 155th class.
But starting in 1943 and up until recent years,
there have been thousands of intrepid missionaries that have gone throughout the earth,
laying the groundwork for the expansion of the organization in the 20th century,
especially the latter part.
What is it easy for them?
No, it wasn't.
But they rest assured that Jehovah was with them and that assignment.
And they were able to be successful in what they did.
Now, the purpose of Gilead has changed, hasn't it?
But the spirit has not changed.
The students and the graduates are still reliant on Jehovah,
fully reliant to be successful.
And it's the same spirit that we have here at Bethel.
We see Bethelites who are going through difficulties, perhaps with family or their own health.
But they are fully reliant on Jehovah, knowing that Jehovah is going to help them
to be successful in their assignment.
Now, there's an interesting part of verse 10 that we want to key in on.
Because it shows that in Jehovah and Jesus' interest and concern for people
extends to those in the ministry.
Look at the last part of verse 10.
It says, for I have many people in this city.
Well, that's quite a remarkable expression, isn't it?
Because in this city, Corinth, it was a very wealthy city.
It had many distractions. They had materialism.
They had entertainment, politics, and they had very low morals.
In fact, you could say that Corinth was the sin city of its day.
But despite that environment, despite that culture, Jesus saw through the sin
and the layers of imperfection to what the Corinthians were at heart.
He saw individuals that were honest, individuals that were humble,
individuals that were righteously disposed.
So instead of seeing these individuals as they were,
he saw potential, what they could become with Holy Spirit.
Now, it was so interesting that Paul was also able to see this transformation
that was going to be possible.
And it's interesting that he wrote to Timothy later on,
1 Timothy chapter 2.
This is fine and acceptable on the side of our Savior, God,
whose will is that all sorts of people should be saved
and come to an accurate knowledge of the truth.
Now, did the Apostle Paul have in mind these Corinthians
when he wrote this quite possibly?
So what can we take away from this?
To see potential in others.
For example, when we're out in the ministry,
we want to see that these ones have potential to make drastic changes
to become our fellow believers.
And many of them have lifestyles that are similar to the Corinthians.
But by applying Bible principles with Holy Spirit,
they can make changes and they can become our fellow believers.
And when we think about that, that helps us to seize opportunities
and give a witness because we simply don't know
how their circumstances are going to change and turn out.
Now, here's another point that we can take away from this.
We work closely with ones at Bethel and in the congregation.
And sometimes the closer you work with somebody,
the more mistakes you see, the more faults you see.
But the question that we need to ask is,
do we also see their good qualities?
Do we also see how Jehovah's spirit is molding them to be a better person?
And are we seeing their potential?
Can we imagine what our workmates are going to look like
in the new world after Jehovah's helped them to be able to realize their potential?
Well, if so, we are seeing them as Jehovah and Jesus too.
Now, the Apostle Paul stayed in Corinth for some 18 months
to establish a congregation and then he continued his missionary tour.
And then worldly influences began to creep into the congregation.
Now, although they experienced problems,
did that mean that Jehovah and Jesus were no longer washing over them?
Well, that's not the case at all.
In fact, we know that Jehovah's spirit is active.
And so it moved the Apostle Paul later on to write the first letter to the Corinthians.
And let's open to that counsel that was given to them,
1 Corinthians chapter 6, verse 9.
This is our text for today.
Now, this is doing a pause, a third missionary tour that he wrote this.
And he said,
Do you not know that unrighteous people will not inherit God's kingdom?
Do not be misled.
Those who are sexually immoral,
idolaters, adopters, men who submit to homosexual acts,
those who practice homosexuality,
thieves, greedy people,
drunkards,
revilers, and extortioners
will not inherit God's kingdom.
This is some strong counsel.
You can imagine being at the meeting when this letter is being read.
But then look at verse 11.
And yet that is what some of you were.
But you have been washed clean,
you have been sanctified,
you have been declared righteous in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ,
and with the spirit of our God.
What excellent counsel to help these Christians get back on track?
It called them to their senses,
and reminded them of who they really were, their Christian identity.
It helped them to be able to see how they could have a clean,
standing with Jehovah,
and to work on developing and cultivating a stronger relationship with them.